MINI PROJECT
REPORT

Name: Siddhant Mishra
UniversityRollNo.:2013521
Section: E

Course: B. Tech CSE

Semester: 6"

Problem statement-
Sentimental Analysis of Twitter

Motivation to do the project-

Sentiment analysis is extremely useful in social media monitoring as it allows
us to gain an overview of the wider public opinion behind certain topics.
Social media monitoring tools like Brand watch Analytics make that process
quicker and easier than ever before, thanks to real-time monitoring
capabilities.

The applications of sentiment analysis are broad and powerful. The ability to
extract insights from social data is a practice that is being widely adopted by
organizations across the world.

Shifts in sentiment on social media have been shown to correlate with shifts
in the stock market.

The Obama administration used sentiment analysis to gauge public opinion
to policy announcements and campaign messages ahead of 2012
presidential election. Being able to quickly see the sentiment behind
everything from forum posts to news articles means being better able to
strategies and plan for the future.

It can also be an essential part of your market research and customer service
approach. Not only can you see what people think of your own products or
services, you can see what they think about your competitors too. The overall
customer experience of your users can be revealed quickly with sentiment
analysis, but it can get far more granular too.

Methodology Followed-
« Data Collection

Consumers usually express their sentiments on public forums like the blogs,
discussion boards, product reviews as well as on their private logs — Social
network sites like Facebook and Twitter. Opinions and feelings are expressed
in different way, with different vocabulary, context of writing, usage of short
forms and slang, making the data huge and disorganized.

« Text Preparation

Text preparation is nothing but filtering the extracted data before analysis. It
includes identifying and eliminating non-textual content and content that is
irrelevant to the area of study from the data.

« Sentiment Detection

At this stage, each sentence of the review and opinion is examined for
subjectivity. Sentences with subjective expressions are retained and that
which conveys objective expressions are discarded. Sentiment analysis is
done at different levels using common computational techniques like
Unigrams, lemmas, negation and so on.
« Sentiment Classification

Sentiments can be broadly classified into two groups, positive and negative.
At this stage of sentiment analysis methodology, each subjective sentence
detected 1s classified into groups-positive, negative, good, bad, like, dislike.

« Presentation of Output

The main idea of sentiment analysis is to convert unstructured text into
meaningful information. After the completion of analysis, the text results are
displayed on graphs like pie chart, bar chart and line graphs.

Thankyou Sir
